[MUSIC]
>> Speaker 1: Now we're going to
talk about the different types of
middleware in Express 4.
So we're using Express 4.0,
which is really awesome.
But there five different types
of middleware in Express 4.
There are third party middleware,
which is like body parser,
and this stuff, the stuff that we NPM
installed, this third party middleware.
There's router level middleware.
We haven't gotten to that, but
we'll get to that later today actually.
So, we'll get into
router level middleware.
There's application level middleware,
which is what we've been
using this entire time.
What is this?
Because when we do the app.use,
we're saying this entire
application instance is gonna
use this middleware right here.
It doesn't matter what router,
it doesn't matter what.
Whenever a request comes in, it's always
gonna run through here first, and
then it's always gonna
go through here second.
It's always gonna go through here third,
no matter what.
No matter what middleware we
put down here, on another file,
another file,
it's always gonna come through here.
That's application-wide middleware.
So body parser is a third
party middleware, and
it is also registered on
an application level, so it's both.
Then there is error handling middleware.
So, error handling middleware
is pretty awesome.
So the way that works is, again this can
also be application wide or router level.
We'll talk about router level,
but the application or
error handling middleware is a little
different than regular middleware.
Because it is a function,
just like all the other middleware.
But it takes in one extra argument,
and that's an error.
As a first argument,
you actually have to put that there.
You don't put there, express won't think
that you're making an error middleware.
It will just be like,
this is regular middleware.
If you put error, request,
response, and then next.
Now, expressing those you're doing errors.
So, how do we actually trigger this?
I'll show you.
So, I'm going to say console.log.
>> Speaker 1: Error.
Or actually this doesn't need to change
the colour, we're going to say log.
And then I'll go another one up here so
we can see
>> Speaker 1: So
what we can do is, let's say for
instance, in Linux.
We trigger an error.
Instead of doing a response,
we can just say you know what, do next.
And throw an error,
so new error nooope.
All right so if we do that by
passing this error into next,
we're saying one go to the next
thing in the middleware stack and
two it's an error so that's going to
trigger our error handling middleware.
>> Speaker 1: Does everybody see that?
So we're gonna run this.
I think I actually have to move this
above this but let's see, we'll see.
So, we're gonna run this.
What was it, slash lions, yeah, so I'm
gonna go to slash lions in the browser.
>> Speaker 1: Cool,
wait I forgot to put in next right?
That would help.
>> Speaker 1: Let's try that again.
Cool, so there we go, nooope,
actually I don't think
it's actually triggered,
let me go, let me see,
no this actually didn't
trigger our middleware,
it's just like a logging note.
Yeah, it's just doing this.
So, I think if we want to trigger
our middleware, we would have to
put this below the stack, so
we would have to put this down here.
Now if you call next,
it should trigger our middleware.
So, let's try that.
Port 3000, nope.
There we go.
So now, it's triggering our middleware.
Because, do you see how I had
to change the order of that?
>> Speaker 2: Yeah.
>> Speaker 1: Because I define.
At first, the error middleware was up
here, and this route was down here.
So when I called next,
there's nothing after this route.
These routes are not after this route,
they're different routes,
they're like siblings,
they're not after it.
The chain starts up here, here's the first
middleware, here's the second middleware,
and here's the third middleware, and then
each one of these could be the fourth,
they're siblings.
It depends on which route you hit,
but they're just siblings.
And then the fifth one is down here, yes.
>> Speaker 2: I have two questions.
First one, with this error one,
does the spelling of error matter?
>> Speaker 1: No,
you can do whatever you want.
>> Speaker 2: Okay, so
how does it know if it's an error and
how does it know if it's
an error middleware or
just a normal middleware if it doesn't
look at the spelling of the first param?
>> Speaker 1: I'm not, I'm guess what
they do is they check the length of
the arguments.
>> Speaker 2: So if you dropped off next,
it would think it's a normal, middleware.
>> Speaker 1: Quite possibly
let's check it out.
I am not sure about that here remove.
So a quick check.
So many tabs, okay, yeah it did.
That didn't know, that freaked out so
you need all those in there.
>> Speaker 2: So you need four of them?
>> Speaker 1: Yup
>> Speaker 2: Okay.
>> Speaker 1: I think it says
in the documentation why.
>> Speaker 2: Okay.
>> Speaker 1: I just don't
want to tell you and be wrong.
>> Speaker 2: Okay, and then my second
question is are we able to access that
middleware array and
like programically drop some middleware or
like snap one of our middlewares up
to the top or something like that?
>> Speaker 1: No, not by default.
You can dig in and maybe,
if you want to do stuff like that but
by default there is no API.
>> Speaker 2: You just
order it any way you want?
>> Speaker 1: You order it,
you write it in the order that you want.
I haven't been in a situation
where I needed to do that, so So
again the reason I had to move this down
is because the stack middleware starts off
as one, two, three and then any of these
routes is going to be the fourth one and
then the fifth one is this one.
>> Speaker 1: So, this is error middleware
step out of these four arguments in here,
and this is how you handle error.
So, instead of in every single route
you'd be like if error throw error,
you can just say next and
define your error handling here.
This is where you would post
your error handling service,
maybe log to a file, whatever you do with
your errors, you would do it in this
function right here
>> Speaker 2: So,
you just do it in one place.
Yeah, Mark you had a question?
>> Speaker 1: There's saying, so whenever
you use app.use that's middleware?
>> Speaker 2: Yeah, that's global,
app.use is setting global
application middleware, yes.
That means, I want this app to
use this middleware globally.
>> Speaker 1: And then how do you
decide which function goes where?
Like is the error always at the end.
>> Speaker 2: Yeah.
So, the other ones are kind of arbitrary.
I mean, there is some ordering.
Like for instance, express.static.
You probably want that to go first,
before you set up your api routes.
So, for instance, let's say we
had a file who's path was /lions.
That was the files, but we registered this
route up top before express dot static.
What would happen is when that file for
slash lions comes in,
it's going to do this instead.
When in fact it should went to express dot
static and serve this slash lions file.
So you want to do express dot static
first to get all the files, so
the ordering does matter there.
The URL stuff as long as
you do it before your API,
because you do it before your API.
And as far as your error handling goes,
it should be at the end of this stack,
because you want to be able to reliably
call next in one of these callbacks up
here, with an error
>> Speaker 1: And
expect your error handling to pick it up,
and
the only way to guarantee that is to make
sure that it's registered beneath it.
So this is simple now, but
when we start getting into multiple files
you might lose track of
what's registered where, but
I'm gonna show you how easy it
is to keep track of that too.
Because right now everything's
in one file top to bottom.
We can see what's first what's last,
but we're gonna have multiple
files with multiple routers.
With multiple middleware stacks, and
those routes will have their
own middleware stacks too.
So, it gets pretty crazy.
>> Speaker 2: So, Scott do you have
to put next error in every route?
>> Speaker 1: No, so in for
an error handling middleware
you absolutely have to
put these four arguments.
So how does the error get to the-
>> Speaker 2: Right, so
how does error get here?
>> Speaker 1: Yeah.
>> Speaker 2: So what happened was I threw
an error, so if I did a get request/lions,
I'm going to call next which means go
to the next middleware in the stack.
So forget about the error right now.
Don't worry about the error.
But I called next, right.
That's automatically gonna look in
the stack and see what is registered next.
And it's not one of these.
These are siblings,
they're not lined up next to each other.
These are siblings.
The next thing in
the stack is actually this.
And then now, if we go back I threw in
an error, an object with type of error.
Which is passed in right here.
>> Speaker 2: So
that's where that came from.
Mark.
>> Speaker 1: Could you use app.all and
declare the error handler
before the routes?
And then he's saying I'd like to keep all
express configs middleware in a separate
config file.
>> Speaker 2: Yup,
we're gonna get into that.
I agree, definitely like to keep all
that stuff in a separate config file,
that's definitely a good practice.
But app.all is, you could use app.all,
but that's for something else but
you could totally do app.all.
app.all is like I want to run,
I wouldn't put error handling in app.all.
But you could do that.
app.all is for
any request that comes in, or for,
I'm sorry, for any verb on this
route that comes in, do this.
So app.all is like this.
app.all, and
you can define a request here or a URL.
And you can write a function so, for
any verb to this route put,
delete post, run this callback.
So, it's a little different
than doing app.use.
Then you can also not use the route too,
you can just use something like that.
And that might be closer to app.use,
but still it's not the same thing.
It's not what it's meant to be used for.
It's like I want to set up some Common
functionality on across all the routes.
So for instance,
if I wanted to do a log on
all the requests through lions, I could
just come in here and say req, res.
Console.log('lions!!!').
And the responsibly make sure I call next
>> Speaker 2: Now
what's going to happen is it's
going to go here, here, here.
And then, because I went to /lions,
it will go here first and
then it'll go to the appropriate one.
>> Speaker 2: So we can test that,
so lets get rid of that Res.json,
>> Speaker 2: Just gonna do nodemon.
>> Speaker 2: So, now if I go back and
do lions something's broken.
I forgot to do next again.
>> Speaker 2: Next.
>> Speaker 2: There we go.
Close enough, you go look at it.
Otherwise, there we go.
Sorry.
Yeah, so it logged alliance and
then it kept going.
Looks like it logged it twice for
some reason.
I don't know why.
>> Speaker 2: Cool.
All right, so
back to the middleware notes.
So that was me going off on a tangent
of error handling, middleware and
then there is build-in middle ware
which is like express.static.
So, express used to have tones of middle
ware build-in like bodyParser all
of that stuff was like build in then they
broke of from connect 4.0 and took it out.
So, now the only thing that's built
in is a few things, Express.static.
I can't even remember the other ones,
but there's only like two, or three, or
four useful ones that
are built into Express now.
And if you want to access them
they're on the Express object.
But Express.data is the most useful one.
So whichever type of middleware, whichever
type you use, it's the same thing.
It's still a function with the exemption
of the error handling middleware,
which has to have that error argument.
But every other type of middleware,
it doesn't matter how you use them,
third party, router level,
application level, error handling built
in.They're still just a function.